1. 涉及北京机动车使用量增加这一问题，有的人认为应该限制使用。另一些人持相反意见。

　　也许双方的观点都有一定道理，但是，无论车辆多少，必须对废气排放实行控制。

　　When it comes to the increasing use of motor vehicles in Beijing, some people think that use should be limited. Others argue that the opposite is true. There is probably some truth to both arguments, but emission controls must be instituted regardless of the number of vehicles.

　　2. 目前，针对流动工人的问题展开了普遍的争论。反对流动工人增加的人认为这会导致犯罪率升高，从而危害社会稳定。他们主张应该严格限制进入中国城市的流动工人。但是，另一方面，支持廉价劳动力流入的人主张，为了支持大规模的城市基础设施建设规划，流动人口是必需的。

　　There is a general debate nowadays about the problem of itinerant workers. Those who object to the rising migrant population argue that increasing numbers lead to rising crime rates and harm social stability. They believe that strict limits should be placed on migrants entering China’s cities. But people who favor the influx of the cheap labor force, on the other hand, maintain that migrants are needed to support the massive urban infrastructure construction program.

　　3. 人们普遍认为过度砍伐造成了夏季特大洪水。专家认为中国必须推行大规模的植树造林计划。但我对仅仅植树造林就能解决问题表示怀疑。

　　It is widely acknowledged that extensive deforestation contributed to heavy summer flooding. Experts argue that China must introduce a massive forestation program. But I doubt whether forestation alone will solve the problem.

　　4. 大多数人认为财富为所有问题提供解决的办法。但是，我认为，尽管财富提供物质上的利益，一个人应该放弃物质至上的追求，而是集中精力追求幸福。

　　Most people are of the opinion that wealth provides solutions to all problems. But in spite of the material benefits wealth provides, I believe one should abandon the pursuit of materialism and instead concentrate on the pursuit of happiness.

　　5. 越来越多的人通过互联网进入了“信息时代”。针对这一现象，一些人认为互联网消除了障碍，为人们提供了与世界即时链接的途径。但是，他们有没有意识到迅速发展的信息技术也能导致侵犯隐私?

　　An increasing number of people are joining the “Information Age” via the Internet. In reaction to the phenomenon, some say the Internet has removed barriers and provided people with immediate access to the world. But do they realize that rapidly advancing information technology can also lead to intrusions of privacy?

　　6. 最近，我们经常听到贫富差距扩大了的说法。一些人认为发达世界完全忽略了这个问题。事实是这样吗?细致的调查无法证实这一观点。

　　These days we often hear about the widening gap between the rich and poor. Some argue the developed world has totally ignored the problem. But has it? Close examination fails to bear out the argument.

　　7. 我们经常被告知世界处于毁灭的边缘。但事实真是这样吗?

　　We’re often told that the world is tethering on the brink of destruction. But is this really the case?

　　8. 许多人谈论的一个最严重的问题集中在缺乏足够的居住空间。

　　One of the most serious problems many people talk about centers on the lack of adequate housing space.

　　9. 也许当今困扰国家的最危险的现象是遍布各级政府的官员腐败。

　　Perhaps the most dangerous phenomenon gripping the nation today is official corruption, which is pervasive in all levels of government.

　　10. 世界上越来越多的人认识到加强环境保护的必要性。

　　There is a growing worldwide awareness of the need for strengthened environmental protection.
11. 历史上，人口过剩的问题从来没有比现在更加突出。

　　Never before in history has the issue of overpopulation been more evident than now.

　　12. 越来越多的人开始意识到财富不是幸福的唯一先决条件。

　　A growing number of people are beginning to realize that wealth is not the sole prerequisite for happiness.

　　13. 尽管科学技术取得了非凡的进步，但是在保证进步成果使尽可能多的人受益这方面还存在一些问题。

　　In spite of the extraordinary progress made in science and technology, problems remain in terms of guaranteeing that achievements benefit the greatest number of people.

　　14. 一位著名的思想家曾经写道：“对人类最大的威胁是人类自身!”如果事实确实如此，那么，现状应该促使我们对我们未来的生存进行思索了。

　　A famous thinker once wrote that “the greatest threat to mankind is mankind itself!” If this is indeed the case, then the current situation should make us ponder our future existence.

　　15. 对人们行为的多年观察使我能够得出这样的结论：平庸和成功的主要区别仅仅在于相关的个人。成功的个人不断寻求进步，而他们比较懒惰的同时代人仅仅满足于现状。

　　Years of observing human behavior has enabled me to conclude that the major difference between mediocrity and success lies solely with the individual concerned. Successful individuals consistently seek advancement, while their less industrious contemporaries are merely content with the status quo.

　　16. 传统的思维方式有了显著的变化。舆论发生了剧变，人们表现出更开放的思想以及决定他们自己命运的强烈愿望。

　　Traditional ways of thinking have changed dramatically. The pendulum has swung and people are exhibiting greater open-mindedness and a burning desire to determine their own destiny.

　　17. 近年来出现了对社会有害的拜金主义倾向。最近的一项调查表明，X%的调查对象把致富作为他们的首选，相比之下，就在几年前，只有X%的人这样想。为什么人们没能意识到财富不一定带来幸福呢?

　　There has been undesirable trend in recent years towards the worship of money. A recent survey showed that X percent of respondents ranked getting rich as their top priority, compared to X percent only a few years ago. Why do people fail to realize that wealth does not necessarily bring happiness?

　　18. 几个月前，我的一个朋友死于一场与酒后驾车有关的悲惨车祸。这件事情一点儿也不罕见，事实上是数以千计的案件的典型，这些案件与在酒精作用下开车的人有关。

　　Some months ago, a friend of mine was killed in a tragic automobile accident involving a drunk driver. The incident was far from rare, and was in fact typical of thousands of cases involving people driving under the influence of alcohol.

　　19. 简而言之，我们必须勤奋工作，为了下一代把世界变成更美好的地方。我们不应该坚持对环境有害的追求。

　　In short, we must work diligently to make the world a better place for coming generations. We must not persist in pursuits harmful to the environment.

　　20. 我们必须避免过分放纵和铺张浪费。相反，我们应该继续发扬节俭的优点以守护我们新获得的繁荣。

　　We must avoid overindulgence and conspicuous consumption. We must instead continue to recognize the benefits of thrift in order to protect our newfound prosperity.
21. 获得成功说起来比做起来容易，然而坚持不懈确实会有好结果。成功人士的最重要的特征之一是自信，第二是渴望，还有一个是决心。

　　While achieving success is easier said than done, persistence does in fact pay off. One of the most important traits of a successful person is self-confidence, another is desire, and still another is determination.

　　22. 认识到问题是找到解决办法的第一步。

　　Recognizing a problem is the first step in finding a solution.

　　23. 我们应该感谢许多为把世界变得更美好而奉献一生的人。然而，我们不能依靠他们的成绩，而必须努力工作，取得更辉煌的成就。

　　We owe a debt of gratitude to the many individuals who dedicated their lives to making the world a better place. However, we must not rest on their accomplishments, but must instead work assiduously to record even greater achievements.

　　24. 现在，中国面临的两大挑战是保持持续的经济增长和靠世界上仅仅百分之七的可耕地养活仍在增长的12亿人口。尽管遇到的困难很大，中国人无疑会表现出不知疲倦的活力，在两方面都取得巨大成功。

　　The two major challenges facing China today center on maintaining sustained economic growth and feeding its growing population of over 1. 2 billion people with only seven percent of the world’s cultivable land. Despite the monumental difficulties involved, Chinese people will undoubtedly exhibit their indefatigable resilience and achieve great success in both regards.

　　25. 事实上，我们达到最终的目标还有很长的路要走，但是，取得一些成绩还是可能做到的。

　　We do, in fact, have a long way to go to reach our final goal, but achieving some remains well within the realm of possibility.

　　26. 为什么越来越多的中国老人不和他们的孩子住在一起?原因之一是年轻一代的上进心增强了。另一个原因是社会上老人的机会增加了。然而，主要的原因可能是传统观念发生了巨大变化。

　　Why are an increasing number of elderly Chinese parents living apart from their children? One reason is the increasing upward mobility of the younger generation. Another is expanding social opportunities for the elderly. Perhaps the main reason, however, centers on dramatic changes in traditional concepts.

　　27. 什么引发了人们对锻炼越来越浓的兴趣?一方面，人们更加清楚地意识到保持身体健康的必要性。另一方面，不断提高的生活水平使中国人能够支付增加的娱乐支出。最主要的可能在于锻炼带来的保健和心理上的好处。

　　What has sparked the increasing interest in exercise? For one thing, people have gained a greater awareness of the need for physical fitness. For another, the constantly improving standard of living enables Chinese people to patronize the increasing number of recreational venues. The main thing perhaps centers on the healthcare and psychological benefits exercise provides.

　　28. 要找到涉及许多复杂因素的新现象的原因远非一件易事。例如，一些科学家把环境的恶化归结为一些自然因素，而另一些人把责任都推到人类不适当的行为上。

　　Identifying the reasons for an emerging phenomenon which involves several complicated factors is far from an easy task. For example, some scientists attribute environmental deterioration to a series of natural factors, while others place the blame solely on inappropriate human behavior.

　　29. 对上升的少年自杀率的解释涉及很多复杂的因素。有的人把上升的原因归结为过分强调少年时期的成功，有的人指出是因为不断增长的同伴之间的压力，还有人认为是对不断变化的社会价值的迷茫造成的。

　　The explanation for the phenomenon of the rising teenage suicide rate involves many complicated factors. Some attribute the rise to an overemphasis on early success, others point to mounting peer pressure, and still others to confusion over changing social values.

　　30. 儿童的发展取决于很多因素，包括生理的和心理的。从婴儿期到青春期的正确的家长教育决定一个成熟的个人的体质及智力的状况。

　　Child development depends on a number of factors, both physical and psychological. Correct parental nurturing from infancy through adolescence determines both the physical and mental profile of a mature individual.
31. 自信、雄心，加上决心和毅力等因素是造成最终的成功或失败的原因。

　　Factors such as self-confidence and ambition, combined with determination and willpower, contribute to eventual success or failure.

　　32. 如今人类最常见的一个不足是不说真话。人们必须意识到不说真话、说谎话在过去没有，事实上，将来也永远不会变错误为正确。

　　One of the most common failures of people today is to avoid telling the truth. People must realize that avoidance and lying have never in the past and, in fact, never will right a wrong.

　　33. 声称缺少机会不过是敷衍失败的借口。通常，失败最根本的原因是相关的个人本身缺乏动力。

　　Claiming a lack of opportunities is nothing more than a superficial excuse for justifying failure. The fundamental reason for failure is most often the lack of drive on the part of the individual involved.

　　34. 我们可以，而且经常因个人的失败抱怨我们的同时代人，但是，事实是许多问题的根本原因要深刻得多。

　　We can, and quite often do, blame our contemporaries for personal failures, but the fact of the matter is that the root causes for most problems go much deeper.

　　35. 虽然全球变暖这一长期的问题确实很严重，但考虑到诸如环境的迅速恶化和不可更新资源的普遍滥用等当前的问题，它的重要性就有所降低了。

　　While the long-term problem of global warming is indeed serious, its significance diminishes somewhat when considering immediate problems such as rapid environmental deterioration and the rampant misuse and abuse of nonrenewable resources.

　　36. 与拥有一辆自行车相比，人们更愿意拥有一辆汽车，但拥有后者涉及的问题远远超过前者。原因之一，汽车昂贵很多，需要更多的维护。原因之二，自行车不会引起污染。

　　Owning a car might be preferable to owning a bicycle, but the problems associated with owning the former far outweigh those of the latter. For one thing, automobiles are exponentially more expensive and require greater maintenance. For another, bicycles don’t pollute.

　　37. 从成功的角度来说，良好的职业道德与教育同等重要。事实上，成功的确建立在两方面完全融合的基础上。

　　From the standpoint of success, a good work ethic is no less important than an education. Success does, in fact, depend on the total integration of both aspects.

　　38. 改善教师的困难处境的确是优先处理的一件事情。但是，改进整个教育系统同等重要。

　　Improving the plight of teachers is indeed a priority item. However, improving the overall education system is likewise no less important.

　　39. 无论结果如何，我们必须坚定地继续为目标而努力。

　　Whatever the outcome, we must resolutely precede with our objective.

　　40. 无论成功的决心多么坚定，成功的要求多么强烈，一个人永远不能丧失他/她的道德和社会觉悟。

　　However great the will to achieve, and however great the demand to succeed, one should never abandon his/her moral and social consciousness.
41. 微软的创始人比尔·盖茨是成功的经典范例。

　　Bill Gates, founder of Microsoft, is a classic example of success.

　　42. 坚持不懈能取得好结果!一个恰当的例子是正在进行的关于中东和平进程的谈判和预期达成的引人注目的决议。

　　Persistence pays off! A case in point centers on the ongoing negotiations and anticipated eminent resolution of the Middle East peace process.

　　43. 历史上有很多值得称赞和效法的伟人。

　　History abounds with great men worthy of adulation and emulation.

　　44. 锻炼对健康的重要性只是生活中人们想当然的事情的一个例子。

　　The importance of exercise to good health is only one example of aspects of life people most often take for granted.

　　45. 想象一下如果我们稍微多关心一下我们的同胞，世界将变得多美好。

　　Just imagine how great the word would be if we would only exhibit greater concern for our fellowman.

　　46. 一个人仅仅为了帮助别人而愿意完全放弃生活的舒适是很罕见的。

　　It is rare to find a person willing to totally abandon the comforts of life simply to help others.

　　47. 个人经验告诉我：和善地对待别人会得到数不清的好处。

　　Personal experience has taught that kindness to others pays untold dividends.

　　48. 庆幸的是，大量可靠的证据证明抽烟和癌症有直接联系是毫无疑问的。

　　Fortunately, a mountain of reliable evidence proves the direct link between smoking and cancer beyond any shadow of the doubt.

　　49. 数据显示模仿的犯罪行为有大幅度的增加，这证明电视暴力是犯罪增加的一部分直接原因。

　　Television violence has contributed directly to rising crime, as evidenced by statistics showing a dramatic rise in copycat crimes.

　　50. 当被问及对现在有关美国总统比尔·克林顿的沸沸扬扬的议论有什么看法时，大多数人认为这种暧昧关系纯属私事。但是，还有很多人认为他的行为应当受到谴责。我个人认为总统犯了这些过错，应该被指控。

　　When asked about the ongoing uproar involving U. S. President Bill Clinton, most people say the affair involves a purely private matter. But many other people regard his actions as deplorable. I personally think the president committed impeachable offences.


　　1. superior to others高人一等

　　2. The large scale development of West China is of profound significance 西部大开发具有深远意义

　　3. revitalize our nation 实现我们民族的伟大复兴

　　4. lag behind(发展)滞后

　　5. the opening-up policies 开放政策

　　6. lure more foreign capital 吸引更多的外资

　　7. leave… far behind 把…远远地甩到后边

　　8. In addition, the west’s unique unfavorable geographic positions greatly limitits development 另外，西部极为不利的地理位置限制了其自身的发展。

　　9. subsistence problem温饱问题

　　10. If left unchanged, the underdevelopment in the west will greatly affect overall prosperity and even social stability.这种状况若不改变的话，西部的落后将极大地影

　　响共同富裕的目标甚至社会稳定。

　　11. However, the western region development is a long-term systematic project.

　　然而，西部开发是一个长期的系统工程。

　　12.It calls for tremendous efforts of several generations.它需要几代人的共同努力。

　　13.economic prosperity 经济繁荣

　　14. social progress 社会进步

　　15.political stability政治稳定

　　16. beautiful landscape风光秀丽

　　17.a deep-rooted concept 一个根深蒂固的观念

　　18. materialistic society 物质社会

　　19.be concerned about关心

　　20. the sense of achievement成就感

　21.in terms of 从……的角度

　　22. a sound attitude 一种正确的态度

　　23. strive for 为 …… 而努力

　　24. bookworm 书呆子

　　25. the pursuit of our ideals 对我们理想的追求

　　26. material well-being 物质财富

　　27. utilize the natural resources 利用自然资源 28.meet the future needs 满足将来 的需要

　　29. Competition exists everywhere and it is one of the motive forces of thedevelopment of society 竞争是社会生活中的一个司空见惯的现象

　　30. However, we often find competition exists together with cooperation.然而，我 们经常发现竞争与合作共存的情况。

　　31. While we are advocating competition, we can’t forget cooperation.我们在倡导 竞争是不可忽略合作。

　　32. Pure and exclusive competition leads to failures.纯粹排他的竞争会导致一事无 成。

　　33. Only competition together with cooperation helps us a great deal in obtaining our goals and satisfying our needs.只有既竞争又合作，我们才能实现目标，才能满足 自身需要。

　　34. The current education system现行教育体制

　　35.(be) aimed at致力于

　　36. the practical application of what they have learned他们所学知识的实际运用

　　37.challenge examination-oriented education挑战应试教育

　　38. advocate quality-oriented education倡导素质教育

　　39. focus on the students’ ability as a whole重视培养学生的整体能力

　　40. play a key role 起到关键作用
41. contribute to solving the problem of 有助于……问题的解决

　　42. bring up a new generation培养一代新人 43. on a large scale大规模的

　　44. compulsory education义务教育

　　45. a top priority最优先(事项)

　　46. water loss and soil erosion水土流失

　　47. Evidently, the deterioration of the quality of the environment threatens the existence of mankind

　　很明显，环境质量恶化会危及人类的生存。

　　48. Therefore, the best solution is that we should devote to the protection of our home while we are developing our economy.

　　因此，最好的策略是，在发展经济的同时致力于保护环境。

　　49. sustainable development可持续发展

　　50. Both the government and ordinary people should join hands to make this world a better place to live in, not only for ourselves, but also for future generations.

　　政府和百姓应携起手来，一 起打造更好的生存环境，不仅为了自己，更为了我们的子孙后代。

　　51. Some academic works are full of plagiarisms.

　　一些学术作品里充满了剽窃来的思想和文字。

　　52. money-oriented salespeople惟利是图的商人

　　53. fake commodity假货

　　54. achieve success取得成功

　　55. impart knowledge(to)传授知识

　　56. the soul engineer of mankind 人类灵魂的工程师

　　57. raise teachers’ social status and improve their material welfare提高教师社会地位，改善 教师物质待遇。

　　58. an empty slogan一个空洞的口号 59. international prestige国际地位

　　60. promote the unification of China促进祖国的统

　61. in the long run从长远看来

　　62. make every citizen aware that 使每个人都意识到……

　　63. take the lead起带头作用

　　64. deforestation森林砍伐

　　65. ecosystem生态系统

　　66. According to its definition, the purpose of sustainable development is to meet the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. 根据定义，可持续发展战略提出的目的是在不损害子孙后代的利益的前提下满足今天人们的需要。

　　67. The fulfillment of one’s duty and obligations履行某人的职责与义务

　　68. maintain the stability and unity of our country 维护我们国家的稳定和统一

　　69. Children’s love for their parents is the latter’s best reward.孩子对父母的爱是 对父母最好的回报。

　　70. vigor and vitality生机与活力

　　71.an age of awakening觉醒的时期

　　72. lay a good foundation for the future 为将来奠定坚实的基础

　　73. lack of awareness of time’s passage 不能意识到时光的流逝

　　74. go sightseeing 出去观光

　　75. remain fresh in one’s memory 让某人记忆犹新

　　76. It turned out that结果表明…(接从句)

　　77. lengthen people’s life expectancy 延长人们的寿命

　　78. If science is properly used, it will benefit mankind, while if it is misused, it will lead to tragic result.如果正当利用，科学将造福人类，如果利用不当，科学将引发灾难。

　　79. So it’s up to us to make science a blessing rather than a curse to mankind. 让科学造福而非引发祸端，这是我们的责任。

　　80. propagate endangered animal species 促进濒危动物种群的繁衍。
81.produce replacement organs for transplant patients 为病人制造可用于移植的替 代器官。

　　82. The same applies to robots.机器人也存在着相同的问题。

　　83. The concern is good for it calls for adequate attention to the problems of modern technology and the steps to be taken to guide the direction of its development. 此类想法不无裨益，它能唤起人们对现代科技技术带来的问题的足够重视，同时促使人们采 取措施引导技术的发展方向。

　　84. come up with 想出，找出(答案，计划等)

　　85. Tools are the milestones of technology as well as human being’s progress. 工具是科技进步和人类进步的里程碑。

　　86. medical breakthrough 医学上的重大突破

　　87. eradicate根除

　　88.(be) popular with…受到……的欢迎

　　89.(be) enslaved 使沦为奴隶

　　90. greenhouse effect 温室效应

　　91. decisive factor 决定因素

　　92. serve the interests of… 服务于…利益的需要

　　93. I miss very much our traditional culture whose loss is too high a price to pay. 传统文化令我十分留恋，它的缺失意味着高昂的代价。

　　94. Gone forever are not only…, but…永远失去的不仅是……,还有……

　　95. I treasure traditional culture, for it embodies the very customs and values that sustain our friendship, family and spiritual life.我珍惜传统文化，因为它代表了维系我们的友谊，家庭和精神生活的固有方式及价值观。

　　96. lift intellectual property 窃取知识产权

　　97. e-commerce 电子商务

　　98. cause great financial losses导致巨大的经济损失

　　99. It is high time for us to take all the effective measures to battle against hackers. 我们应立即采取有效措施，制止黑壳犯罪。

　　100. Spot some weakness on the Web.窥探到网上的一些漏洞。
