2019考研复试英语口语模板汇总

超级特训营  今天
说到考研复试，相信很多宝宝最“发憷”的部分就是面试了，还有比面试更可怕的存在吗？有！就是英语口语。小编今天整理了复试英语口语模板，宝宝们提前背起来~


01
针对辞职考研的同学
首先介绍自己的毕业学校，毕业之后从事的工作。通过工作中的典型事件表达自己读研的决心和信心，以及自己对这个专业的认识。

Good afternoon, teachers.

I am very glad to be here for this interview. First let me introduce myself. My name is XX, 25 years old. I come from Weifang, a beautiful city of Shandong Province. I graduated from Commercial College in July, 2013 and major in finance. Then, I was a teacher in XX, When I was a senior school student, I was interested in thought and began to read a certain classic work of Marxism, especially I finished reading "the florilegium of Mao ZeDong". From then on, I have dabbled in more and more theoretical works and accumulated great interests in theory study, especially in Marxism.

I have a dream, a dream of my study. I wish devote my whole life and energy into the development of the Marxism. If I have the opportunity to study in XX University, I'll dabble in as much as document about the specialty as possible. If it is possible, I want to get the primary accomplishment in my major, at least, a stable basis.

Personally, for today's China, the first task to the development of Marxism is a process of construction. That's to say, we should understand Marxism mostly from the aspect of construction and development of social society. Only when our socialistic country has a more rapid and sustainable development than the capitalistic, we can enhance the attractiveness and persuasion of Marxism eventually.
Thank you! 

02
比较简洁省时
如果分配给自我介绍的时间不多，可以采用这一模板，简单介绍自己的情况。

Good morning/afternoon/evening, my name is . It is really a great honor to have this opportunity/chance to introduce myself. I would like to answer whatever you may raise, and I hope I can make a good performance today.

I am 23 years old, born in province Beijing, northeast southwest of china, and I am currently a senior(大四学生) student at Capital Institute of Physical Education.

My major is sports training of basketball.
In the past 3 years, I spend most of my time on study. I have passed CET6 and I have acquired basic knowledge of sports training both in theory and in practice.

Besides, I have attended several sports meetings held in Beijing. I am also the volunteers of China Tennis Open, Chinese Badminton Masters. Through these I have a deeply understanding of my major—sports training.

I have lots of interest, such as singing, dancing, drawing and so on.
Thank you!

03
针对在职考研的学生
和第一篇结构一样，首先介绍自己的基本情况，目前所做的工作。然后通过工作中的小事，呈现自己的优势，表达读研的渴望。

Good morning. I am glad to be here for this interview. First let me introduce myself. My name is XX, 24. I come from XX,the capital of XX Province. I graduated from the XX department of XX University in July ,2001.In the past two years I have been prepareing for the postgraduate examination while I have been teaching XXin NO.XX middle School and I was a head-teacher of a class in junior grade two.Now all my hard work has got a result since I have a chance to be interview by you.

I am open-minded ,quick in thought and very fond of history.In my spare time,I have broad interests like many other youngers.I like reading books, especially those XX.Frequently I exchange with other people by making comments in the forum on line.In addition ,during my college years,I was once a Net-bar technician.So, I have a comparative good command of network application.I am able to operate the computer well.I am skillful in searching for information in Internet.I am a football fan for years.Italian team is my favorite.Anyway,I feel great pity for our country's team.

I always believe that one will easily lag behind unless he keeps on learning .Of course, if I am given a chance to study XX in this famous University,I will stare no effort to master a good command of advance XX. 

04
比较综合性的模板
每一段都可以拆分成为一个单独的问题，导师在英语面试中关注的个人问题(比如家庭、家乡、兴趣、读研之后的规划等等)几乎都包括在内，希望研研们好好阅读，针对个人情况进行修改。

First let me introduce myself, my name is XX, 23 years old, and David is my English name. I am open-minded, easy to adapt, compatible with my friends, and willing to help others.

I studied in XX University. Although it is not well known, I still appreciate it, because it offers me a chance to develop my abilities. During my college years, I have made rapid and great progress in many areas, as a student, I work very hard, and obtain scholarship many times, as a monitor, I work earnestly, also gain good comments from teachers and classmates, working as a member of Student Union, I strive to finish any assignment perfectly. In a word, I learned a lot in my college life.

In my family, there are three members, my farther, my mother, and I. My parents are workers, my father works very hard, and he is always fully occupied, so most of the housework is done by my mother, of course, while I am at home, I would help her. I love my parents and they love me, too. When I make a success, they are more excited than me, and support me to do better. Even though I failed, instead of blaming, they always share sorrow with me, and encourage me not to give up. During my preparation for graduate examination, the support from my family is always my momentum. Parents' love is unselfish, I am deeply affected, so I will do all what I can to repay them.

My hometown is XX, a young city in XX Province. It is famous for its XX and XX. There are great scenes here, XX, XX, XX, and so on. Each year, many people come here for tour and investment. So I believe that, with the joint efforts of every person, a better future of XX is coming (round the corner).

During the past four years, I have learned a lot of professional knowledge and practical skills, but gradually, I realize it is not enough. In my opinion, further study is actually urgent for me to realize and finally achieve self-value. Life is precious, it is necessary to catch any opportunity for self-development, especially in the competitive modern society. Therefore, I prefer to go on for further education.

I am deeply impressed by the academic atmosphere when connecting to the web site of your department. In addition, I am attracted by the process of XX, and want to do something for XX. As the proverb says 'process is the activity of today and the assurance of tomorrow.' If I got a chance to study here, I would like to continue to accept professional training, in order to get ready for working in the future. I hope I can achieve my goal soon.

There must be many things to learn if I were enrolled into my ideal research field. I hope I can build up a systematic view of XX, especially in the fields of XX. Sincerely, my wish is to get a complete comprehension of XX. On the other hand, I am dreaming of the participation of some relevant projects of my major, for this reason, I will get more experience in practice. And what's more, I expect to continue my study for doctorate degree, if it is possible. In a word, I am looking forward to making up a solid foundation for future profession which is based on three years of study here.

In my spare time, I like reading books, collecting cards and coins, playing volleyball, communicating with friends, and so on.

I also like English very much, I am fond of watching English films and listening to English songs, I passed College English Test Band six in September, 2003, I do believe there is still a long way for me to learn English well enough, however I will not shrink back, Because I realize that English is a bridge connected our country with the outside world. Learning English is the most direct and available method for intercourse among countries and also useful for us to get advanced knowledge and technology from other nations. 

05
比较中规中矩的模板
模板有些长，将自己的家乡、大学情况介绍清楚;也是比较受欢迎的一个模板。大家在准备的时候可以根据个人情况将每一个点都能写成一个小段，老师可能在你介绍的时候打断你，进行相关的提问。

Hello, my professors.It's a fine day today,and I'm very pleased to meet you here.First of all,I'd like to introduce myself to you.My name is XX,my hometown is XX,which is a really beautiful city.Even when i was a young boy,I was very interested in biology science.Every one may have a dream,and I still remember that my dream is to be a biology scientist (just like ZHU KE ZHEN).I liked to make wonders just like,where are we from?Where are we going in the universe?And then I would find the answers in book by myself.Still today I think that interest is the best teacher in one's whole life (and knowledge comes from practice).

Second, I will introduce my major in the university.My major is Biological Engineering in XX University.It has a great relationship with biology scince.Their relationship can be shown with an example: Just like a river,biology science,which often finds new discoveries and theories, is at the head of the river.And my major,which lays more stress on practical use, seems to be at the end of it.When both of them interact well enough,the discovries and theories in biology science can be soon turned into products in all of the modern industry.

Four years' university education gives me a lot of things to learn,a lot of chances to try,and a lot of practices to improve myself.It teaches me not only what to study and how to think,but also to see the importance of practical ability (such as doing expriment as much as possible). In the university life,I have made many good friends.They help me improve my study and research ability, do ererything just like a man,and often give me good example to follow.

Besides what I have introduced myself above,i also have many interests in my spare time.I like playing football,which is an effective way i think to improve my body health,and it can teach me how to join in a group and deal with other people.Drawing and writing is another favor to me.

Above all,I choose the major in order to broad my view in biology scince,and enhance my research ability.I will do my best to join the new group and be good at postgraduate study. 